ST with secrets - mysql, elasticsearch, postgresql. Customer facing doc for setting secrets as env variable (#4945)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/elasticsearch/index.md

---
slug: /send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/elasticsearch
title: Elasticsearch Source Template
sidebar_label: Elasticsearch
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic Elasticsearch source template for OpenTelemetry.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> <head>
>   <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
> </head>
> 
> <p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

Reviewer: Remove beta docs code (you indicated these are GA)

```suggestion
```

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **elasticsearch**.
- **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the host resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
- **`db.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a uniquely identifiable name for your elasticsearch cluster to show in the Sumo Logic dashboards.
- **`db.node.name`**. Includes the value of the hostname of the machine which is being monitored.

## Prerequisites

### For metrics collection

- The Elasticsearch metrics [receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/elasticsearchreceiver) queries the Elasticsearch [node stats](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/cluster-nodes-stats.html), [cluster health](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/cluster-health.html) and [index stats](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/indices-stats.html) endpoints in order to scrape metrics from a running Elasticsearch cluster. This receiver supports Elasticsearch versions 7.9+

> - Make sure to set the password of Elasticsearch user as an environment variable for OpenTelemetry agent, refer to the [Setting Environment variable with secret values for Source Template](../../st-with-secrets.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure to set the Elasticsearch user's password as an environment variable for OpenTelemetry agent. Refer to the [Setting Environment Variables with Secret Values for Source Templates.](../../st-with-secrets.md).
```

> - Make sure to set the Elasticsearch user's password as an environment variable for OpenTelemetry agent. Refer to the [Setting Environment Variables with Secret Values for Source Templates.](../../st-with-secrets.md).

Reviewer 2: @sumoanema, I see you are linking to this hidden article here, and in other articles. Why are you linking to the article if you want to hide the article from the left nav?

Author: Had a discussion with @JV0812 . I have added the st-with-secrets to the sidebar and updated the associated docs pointing to it.
